---
ID: 161
post_title: Essential Concepts for Students
author: Jon Morgan
post_excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: >
  http://cyberland.gazerbeam.com/essential-concepts-for-students
published: true
post_date: 2018-11-08 21:51:33
---
<h1>Essential Concepts for Students</h1>
<ol>
<li><b>Self-Paced Learning:</b> Students may move through activities in the Core Learning Path at an individual  pace. The work is set up for students to individually progress when ready. There is one activity available per day and a total of 20 activities each year. The suggested completion of one activity per week or every other week along with blended learning activities is recommended in order to solidify learning and give students an opportunity to put the core learning skills into practice each week. Every activity progressively builds upon previous work done in the Core Learning Path. Learners can review activities together as a class outside of the online progression which will enable them to reflect on some of the ideas together. Students can take notes and  use them when they undertake the activity on their own. In addition,  they can use the Path Journal tool to review their growth through the work they have completed and engage in further personal reflection by making additional comments in the Path Journal. Additional comments to the questions in EduGuide can be added at any time.</li>
<li><b>Safe Space:</b> The Core Learning Path on EduGuide is a personal space for students to write private thoughts, ideas, and feelings free from interruption from other students. Only Team Coaches have access to the work done in an individual student’s Core Learning Path. </li>
<li><b>Group Discussion:</b> Coaches can create a classroom account so students can work together to discuss key concepts. By exploring  activities together, classes can begin mentoring one another in groups while the coach supports this learning process  by guiding students’ shared discussions and coaching of one another.</li>
<li><b>Deciding What to Share:</b> Each learner has control over what they choose to disclose in response to questions asked in the Core Learning Path. Students are not required to disclose anything they do not feel comfortable sharing.</li>
<li><b>Online Dialogue:</b> Team Coaches will ask students questions when they are responding to a learner’s comments in individual Core Learning Paths. These open-ended questions are meant to prompt students for further reflection regarding what was written and shared on EduGuide. Once again, students can choose whether they want to respond when coaches ask questions. Participating in an online dialogue allows targeted conversations to happen, so Team Coaches can guide students in achieving their personal goals, provide support through challenging obstacles and cheer students on towards individual success. If learners want more interaction, they can ask Team Coaches questions  in response. This interaction helps students develop interpersonal skills and strengthen relationships with their support network.</li>
<li><b>Mentor Training</b>: Students develop a metacognitive perspective (the ability to reflect on your own thinking or planning) to understand more about how to help others learn and grow by coaching Quinn. Quinn could be a younger version of oneself or could be similar to having a younger brother, sister, cousin or a friend you are guiding and influencing. Quinn is anyone students would like to give support to or who they would like to share what they have learned on EduGuide with. In most of the activities, there is at least one or several questions related to explaining a concept or mentoring Quinn; these questions provide learners with an opportunity to explain what they have learned and allow them to practice giving suggestions or guidance using the skill reviewed.</li>
<li><b>Challenges:</b> Students participate in experiential learning connected to the core learning skills by putting them into practice. Each activity presents students with exercises  and action items during the time available between their activities in the Core Learning Path. This time gives learners the chance to actively begin training by putting the concepts and competencies to use in the classroom or when interacting with others outside of school. Students may select from a choice of easy or hard challenges and track progress through the Core Learning Path.</li>
<li><b>Feedback:</b> At the end of each activity in the Core Learning Path, there is an opportunity to share one’s opinion, ask questions, or offer suggestions for improvement. Students may use these questions as a place to think about ways each activity has impacted their learning in the classroom and the world beyond. The more information EduGuide has regarding students’ thoughts and feelings in relation to  the activities and experiences they are having with the program, the better it can become.</li>
<li><b>Develop Leadership Skills</b>: Leaders lead by example. Students will begin to recognize and identify the skills that leaders use to achieve objectives. EduGuide gives students many opportunities to start practicing skills that leaders use to accomplish personal and community goals. Students can take what has been reflected upon and shared in the activities in the Core Learning Path and put those thoughts and ideas into action. Practicing the core learning skills prepares students for leadership, since leaders are modelling ways to continually approach challenges and failure as a part of the future path towards success. Perseverance is an endless process.</li>
<li><b>Reflection & Planning:</b> Learners will be asked to reflect on their past and current experiences, and plan for the future to achieve long-term goals. This includes being able to identify and persevere through the completion of many small steps that must be taken in order to accomplish the larger goal. Other valuable aspects of the Core Learning Path for students include: identifying those who are there to support them, what they want to accomplish, when they need to take specific actions, where they need to go to get resources, why they want to succeed in  self-selected goals and how to move forward in realizing those goals to completion.</li>
<li><b>Lifelong Learning:</b> The skills related to social and emotional learning (SEL) on EduGuide give students the power to cultivate the character strengths needed to thrive in school and life. By examining the power of relationships, learning about connections, and believing in infinite growth, students are offered a chance to control and direct their own personal growth and development.</li>
</ol>
<p>###</p>
<p><a href="https://docs.google.com/document/d/1pDOHKY8Q961EZtR3hrfZNb3zdbvKoRHsOGUjaCNkh3M/edit?usp=sharing">Edit</a></p>